---
title: Your favorites
description: Deciding what to share
published: 2024/01/14
duration: 1 min
tags: ['content', 'support', 'sharing']
---

Todo: reconsider the danger of too many recommendations in newsletters? discuss the value of sharing very little and being decisive about what is shared? Merge this post with cut content into one coherent piece.

---
title: Cut content
description: Link less, say less.
published: 2024/01/01
duration: 2 mins
tags: ['writing']
---



Having too much high quality information and ideas within easy reach and dynamically linking to other bits can be disadvantageous. A book prevents you from taking the jump into something else entirely because you have to get your phone out and google the link yourself, so you read on without too much further distraction. A blog with a hundred links is a hundred little distractions, each linking to a hundred further distractions, letting you read on forever...

We often don't need scale to express interesting ideas, so cut where necessary, and skim only the cream off the top of the work.

There are so many blogs and ideas out there! (If you'd like to be overloaded by examples, [click here](https://jvns.ca/blogroll/)) So much content to read and consider! I would rather not add too much noise to this mess, and take extra time to refine my own writing, removing parts that are not as polished or as interesting.



As I typically don't pay much thought to anything I see online, it could be worthwhile reviewing what other creators make, exploring and understanding their work in more detail, dedicating an extended period of time to try and understand it. Critics review art shows and films for us, but the webcomic critics of our time haven't found as much mainstream limelight yet. Perhaps the YouTube video essayists are beginning to step into this role.

A large amount of content I consume has been served to me via black box algorithms. Sometimes it's relevant and a lot of it isn't. There's an advantage in the randomness of what gets served, in that I'd discover things I wouldn't normally, but there's also a lot of stuff I'd rather not see - a lot of mental noise that doesn't really change my perspective, rather reinforcing lazy stereotypes or talking points.

## Making a quality filter

From the last week you spent online, what is the one thing (if any) you'd share and recommend to your friends?

What about the last month, or year? This is a neat way to remove the mediocre and perhaps brighten other people's days by sharing something nice. At the end of the year, you could rank everything by priority, and only share one or two of the most important things with others - perhaps with a little note why, so the recipient can decide if it's for them or not.

Would you rather a feed of content calculated to maximize watchtime for ad revenue, or a feed of content paired with reasons from other people about why what you are about to see is worth watching? I guess it largely depends on the people, and also your mindset at the time - are you up for actively engaging with what others have made, or would you rather switch your mind off for a bit?

A lot of my interest in this theme is based on the understanding that we have limited time, and that some media is better than others. I'd like to respect others time and not share or overwhelm people with things that aren't relevant.

I suppose one part is deciding the media we want share; another large part is finding the right people to share with.

---

P.S.

A shout out to all the email newsletters that collate content and try to only share the best parts worth seeing... the modern galleries and curators of the internet.

Kudos to Matthias for asking the obvious question of the web dev community - what was your favorite blog post of 2023?

https://mastodon.social/@matthiasott/111660548048103951
