---
title: Elias Sime: Eregata እርጋታ - Arnolfini
description: Not for me
published: 2024/01/07
duration: 2 mins
---

Sadly none of Elias's work really resonated with me strongly. I did have a gut feeling of the sadness of trash and obsolesce looking at the collection of broken watch faces amassed on a quarter sphere, but I didn't particularly enjoy it.

It was perhaps particularly unfair to pair Elias's work beside that of James Cohan's work. James used visually similar materials, but his pieces were much more compelling constructions - one image of donkeys carrying hay in a market particularly evocative, considering it was a beam of still life and reality surrounded by otherwise abstract pieces.

Elias, in comparison to James's single piece large coherent canvases, was held back by his modular block construction. Building up a work with dozens of brick like 6 by 12 boards does lend well to the theme of factory construction and globalisation, but it doesn't make the artwork compelling to me. Gazing at a massive wall of permutations, each brick unique but similar, I'm left wondering if I should review each brick in turn, as there is some nice subtly and variation here - and then I notice differences in variations without gaining much, and get left with impossible questions that don't help me - for example, were the following three tiles in this piece deliberately added to the wall upside down, or was that an accident? It doesn't feel like it matters.

It's pretty clear that this form of seeing isn't helpful for appreciating the artwork, it's too analytical to a work that has been created at scale. If there is a the detail that I do appreciate close up, albeit occasionally, it is intricate threading of the wire in wave like flows, coils and roils of energy sprawling gracefully across all of the available surface area. I'm not a massive fan of this as it permeats so much of the work, becomes samey, and can't break past the modular construction of the work (coils are cut off and isolated to their squares). I guess I primarily like this flowing nature because I'm a fan of Van Gogh, and Van Gogh used a similar technique brilliantly, as if how he painted his subjects met the texture and flow of energy in the scene itself.
